:book: Update p2p docs, general enhancements (#557)
kairos-io/kairos: docs/content/en/docs/Installation/p2p.md

{{% /alert %}}

> Deploying Kubernetes at the Edge can be a complex and time-consuming process, especially when it comes to setting up and managing multiple clusters. To make this process easier, Kairos leverages peer-to-peer technology to automatically coordinate and create Kubernetes clusters without the need for a control management interface.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deploying Kubernetes at the Edge can be a complex and time-consuming process, especially when it comes to setting up and managing multiple clusters. To make this process easier, Kairos leverages peer-to-peer technology to automatically coordinate and create Kubernetes clusters without the need of a control management interface.
```

> With this feature, users can simply avoid specifying any setting, or just set the number of master nodes in a HA cluster they want to create and the necessary configuration details, and Kairos will take care of the rest. The peer-to-peer technology allows the nodes in the cluster to communicate and coordinate with each other, ensuring that the clusters are set up correctly and efficiently with K3s.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With this feature, users don't need to specify any network settings. They can just set the desired number of master nodes (in the case of an HA cluster) and the necessary configuration details, and Kairos will take care of the rest. The peer-to-peer technology allows the nodes in the cluster to communicate and coordinate with each other, ensuring that the clusters are set up correctly and efficiently with K3s.
```

> This not only saves users time and effort, but also makes it easier to deploy and manage Kubernetes clusters at the Edge, allowing users to focus on running and scaling their applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This makes it easier to deploy and manage Kubernetes clusters at the Edge, saving user's time and effort, allowing them to focus on running and scaling their applications.
```

> This feature is currently experimental and can be optionally enabled by adding the following configuration to the node deployment file, if you are not familiar with the installation process, it is suggested to follow the [quickstart](/docs/getting-started):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This feature is currently experimental and can be optionally enabled by adding the following configuration to the node deployment file. If you are not familiar with the installation process, it is suggested to follow the [quickstart](/docs/getting-started):
```

```yaml
p2p:

>   # Disabling DHT makes co-ordination to discover nodes only in the local network

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 # Disabling DHT makes co-ordination to discover nodes only in the local network
```

 disable_dht: true #Enabled by default
 # Automatic cluster deployment configuration
 auto:
   ha:
     # Enables HA controlplane
     enable: true

>      # number of HA master node (beside the one used for init) for the control-plane

Reviewer: I think in the code we ended up using this as the total number of nodes. So in this example, there will be 2 master nodes once of which will be used for init. Is that correct?

     master_nodes: 2
 # network_token is the shared secret used by the nodes to co-ordinate with p2p.
 # Setting a network token implies auto.enable = true.
 # To disable, just set auto.enable = false
 network_token: "YOUR_TOKEN_GOES_HERE"

```

To enable the automatic cluster deployment with peer-to-peer technology, specify a `p2p.network_token`. To enable HA, set `p2p.auto.ha.master_nodes` to the number of wanted HA/master nodes. Additionally, the p2p block can be used to configure the VPN and other settings as needed.

With these settings used to deploy all the nodes, those will automatically communicate and coordinate with each other to deploy and manage the Kubernetes cluster without the need for a control management interface and user intervention.

## Configuration

A minimum configuraton file, that bootstraps a cluster with a simple single-master topology, can look like the following:

```yaml
#cloud-config
hostname: "kubevip-{{ trunc 4 .MachineID }}"

users:
- name: "kairos"
  passwd: "kairos"
  ssh_authorized_keys:
  - github:mudler
p2p:
 network_token: "YOUR_TOKEN_GOES_HERE"
```

> The `p2p` block is used to configure settings to the mesh functionalities. The minimum required argument is the `network_token` and there is no need to configure `k3s` manually with the `k3s` block as it is already implied.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `p2p` block is used to configure settings related to the mesh functionalities. The minimum required argument is the `network_token` and there is no need to configure `k3s` manually with the `k3s` block as it is already implied.
```

| Keyword | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `p2p` | Configures the peer to peer networking of the cluster |
| `p2p.disable_dht` | Disables the distributed hash table for cluster discovery |
| `p2p.network_token` | The shared secret used by the nodes to coordinate with p2p |
| `p2p.network_id` | Optional, unique identifier for the kubernetes cluster. It allows bootstrapping of multiple cluster using the same network token |
| `p2p.role` | Force a specific role for the node of the cluster |
| `p2p.vpn` | Configures a VPN for the cluster nodes |
| `p2p.vpn.create` | Enables the creation of the VPN |
| `p2p.vpn.use` | Enables the use of the VPN for routing Kubernetes traffic of the cluster |
| `p2p.vpn.env` | Configures the environment variables used to start for the VPN |
| `p2p.vpn.auto` | Configures the automatic deployment of the cluster |
| `p2p.auto.enable` | Enables automatic node configuration for role assignment |
| `p2p.auto.ha` | Configures the high availability settings for the cluster |
| `p2p.auto.ha.enable` | Enables the high availability settings |

> | `p2p.auto.ha.master_nodes` | The number of expected HA master nodes in the cluster besides the cluster-init master. |

Reviewer: same here, is it the total number?

| `p2p.auto.ha.external_db` | The external database used for high availability |

## Elastic IP

If deploying a cluster in a Local network, it might be preferable to disable the VPN functionalities.

We use KubeVIP to provide an elastic ip for the control plane that can be configured via a specific block:

```yaml

p2p:
 network_token: ".."
 vpn:
   # Disable VPN, so traffic is not configured with a VPN
   create: false
   use: false

## Sets the Elastic IP used in KubeVIP
kubevip:
  eip: "192.168.1.110"
  # Specify a manifest URL for KubeVIP. Empty uses default
  manifest_url: ""
  # Enables KubeVIP
  enable: true
  # Specifies a KubeVIP Interface
  interface: "ens18"
```

| Keyword | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `kubevip` | Block to configure KubeVIP for the cluster |

> | `kubevip.eip` | The Elastic IP used for KubeVIP. Specifying one automatically enables KubeVIP |

Reviewer: Maybe we should explain that they should pick a free IP address in their network. One that won't collide with any other machine or DHCP.
